Fichier : Das_Martins.pdf
Titre : A Survey on Automatic Text Summarization Dipanjan Das André F.T. Martins
Auteurs : 
Resume : Abstract The increasing availability of online information has necessitated intensive research in the area of automatic text summarization within the Natural Lan- guage Processing (NLP) community. Over the past half a century, the prob- lem has been addressed from many different perspectives, in varying domains and using various paradigms. This survey intends to investigate some of the most relevant approaches both in the areas of single-document and multiple- document summarization, giving special emphasis to empirical methods and extractive techniques. Some promising approaches that concentrate on specific details of the summarization problem are also discussed. Special attention is devoted to automatic evaluation of summarization systems, as future research on summarization is strongly dependent on progress in this area. 1 Introduction The subfield of summarization has been investigated by the NLP community for nearly the last half century. Radev et al. (2002) define a summary as “a text that is produced from one or more texts, that conveys important information in the original text(s), and that is no longer than half of the original text(s) and usually significantly less than that”. This simple definition captures three important aspects that characterize research on automatic summarization: • Summaries may be produced from a single document or multiple documents, • Summaries should preserve important information, • Summaries should be short. Even if we agree unanimously on these points, it seems from the literature that any attempt to provide a more elaborate definition for the task would result in disagreement within the community. In fact, many approaches differ on the manner of their problem formulations. We start by introducing some common terms in the summarization dialect: extraction is the procedure of identifying important sections of the text and producing them verbatim; abstraction aims to produce important material in a new way; fusion combines extracted parts coherently; and compression aims to throw out unimportant sections of the text (Radev et al., 2002). Earliest instances of research on summarizing scientific documents proposed paradigms for extracting salient sentences from text using features like word and phrase frequency (Luhn, 1958), position in the text (Baxendale, 1958) and key phrases (Edmundson, 1969). Various work published since then has concentrated on other domains, mostly on newswire data. Many approaches addressed the problem by building systems depending of the type of the required summary. While extractive summarization is mainly concerned with what the summary content should be, usu- ally relying solely on extraction of sentences, abstractive summarization puts strong emphasis on the form, aiming to produce a grammatical summary, which usually requires advanced language generation techniques. In a paradigm more tuned to information retrieval (IR), one can also consider topic-driven summarization, that assumes that the summary content depends on the preference of the user and can be assessed via a query, making the final summary focused on a particular topic. A crucial issue that will certainly drive future research on summarization is evaluation. During the last fifteen years, many system evaluation competitions like TREC,1 DUC2 and MUC3 have created sets of training material and have estab- lished baselines for performance levels. However, a universal strategy to evaluate summarization systems is still absent. In this survey, we primarily aim to investigate how empirical methods have been used to build summarization systems. The rest of the paper is organized as fol- lows: Section 2 describes single-document summarization, focusing on extractive techniques. Section 3 progresses to discuss the area of multi-document summariza- tion, where a few abstractive approaches that pioneered the field are also considered. Section 4 briefly discusses some unconventional approaches that we believe can be useful in the future of summarization research. Section 5 elaborates a few eval- uation techniques and describes some of the standards for evaluating summaries automatically. Finally, Section 6 concludes the survey. 2 Single-Document Summarization Usually, the flow of information in a given document is not uniform, which means that some parts are more important than others. The major challenge in summa- rization lies in distinguishing the more informative parts of a document from the less ones. Though there have been instances of research describing the automatic creation of abstracts, most work presented in the literature relies on verbatim ex- traction of sentences to address the problem of single-document summarization. In See http://trec.nist.gov/. See http://duc.nist.gov/. See http://www.itl.nist.gov/iad/894.02/related projects/muc/proceedings/. muc 7 toc.html this section, we describe some eminent extractive techniques. First, we look at early work from the 1950s and 60s that kicked off research on summarization. Second, we concentrate on approaches involving machine learning techniques published in the 1990s to today. Finally, we briefly describe some techniques that use a more complex natural language analysis to tackle the problem. 2.1 Early Work Most early work on single-document summarization focused on technical documents. Perhaps the most cited paper on summarization is that of (Luhn, 1958), that de- scribes research done at IBM in the 1950s. In his work, Luhn proposed that the frequency of a particular word in an article provides an useful measure of its sig- nificance. There are several key ideas put forward in this paper that have assumed importance in later work on summarization. As a first step, words were stemmed to their root forms, and stop words were deleted. Luhn then compiled a list of content words sorted by decreasing frequency, the index providing a significance measure of the word. On a sentence level, a significance factor was derived that reflects the number of occurrences of significant words within a sentence, and the linear distance between them due to the intervention of non-significant words. All sentences are ranked in order of their significance factor, and the top ranking sentences are finally selected to form the auto-abstract. Related work (Baxendale, 1958), also done at IBM and published in the same journal, provides early insight on a particular feature helpful in finding salient parts of documents: the sentence position. Towards this goal, the author examined 200 paragraphs to find that in 85% of the paragraphs the topic sentence came as the first one and in 7% of the time it was the last sentence. Thus, a naive but fairly accurate way to select a topic sentence would be to choose one of these two. This positional feature has since been used in many complex machine learning based systems. Edmundson (1969) describes a system that produces document extracts. His primary contribution was the development of a typical structure for an extractive summarization experiment. At first, the author developed a protocol for creating manual extracts, that was applied in a set of 400 technical documents. The two features of word frequency and positional importance were incorporated from the previous two works. Two other features were used: the presence of cue words (presence of words like significant, or hardly), and the skeleton of the document (whether the sentence is a title or heading). Weights were attached to each of these features manually to score each sentence. During evaluation, it was found that about 44% of the auto-extracts matched the manual extracts. 2.2 Machine Learning Methods In the 1990s, with the advent of machine learning techniques in NLP, a series of semi- nal publications appeared that employed statistical techniques to produce document extracts. While initially most systems assumed feature independence and relied on naive-Bayes methods, others have focused on the choice of appropriate features and on learning algorithms that make no independence assumptions. Other significant approaches involved hidden Markov models and log-linear models to improve ex- tractive summarization. A very recent paper, in contrast, used neural networks and third party features (like common words in search engine queries) to improve purely extractive single document summarization. We next describe all these approaches in more detail. 2.2.1 Naive-Bayes Methods Kupiec et al. (1995) describe a method derived from Edmundson (1969) that is able to learn from data. The classification function categorizes each sentence as worthy of extraction or not, using a naive-Bayes classifier. Let s be a particular sentence, S the set of sentences that make up the summary, and F1 , . . . , Fk the features. Assuming independence of the features: Qk i=1 P (Fi | s ∈ S) · P (s ∈ S) P (s ∈ S | F1 , F2 , ..Fk ) = Qk (1) i=1 P (Fi ) The features were compliant to (Edmundson, 1969), but additionally included the sentence length and the presence of uppercase words. Each sentence was given a score according to (1), and only the n top sentences were extracted. To evaluate the system, a corpus of technical documents with manual abstracts was used in the following way: for each sentence in the manual abstract, the authors manually analyzed its match with the actual document sentences and created a mapping (e.g. exact match with a sentence, matching a join of two sentences, not matchable, etc.). The auto-extracts were then evaluated against this mapping. Feature analysis revealed that a system using only the position and the cue features, along with the sentence length sentence feature, performed best. Aone et al. (1999) also incorporated a naive-Bayes classifier, but with richer features. They describe a system called DimSum that made use of features like term frequency (tf ) and inverse document frequency (idf ) to derive signature words.4 The idf was computed from a large corpus of the same domain as the concerned documents. Statistically derived two-noun word collocations were used as units for counting, along with single words. A named-entity tagger was used and each entity was considered as a single token. They also employed some shallow discourse analysis like reference to same entities in the text, maintaining cohesion. The references were resolved at a very shallow level by linking name aliases within a document like “U.S.” to “United States”, or “IBM” for “International Business Machines”. Synonyms and morphological variants were also merged while considering lexical terms, the former being identified by using Wordnet (Miller, 1995). The corpora used in the experiments were from newswire, some of which belonged to the TREC evaluations. Words that indicate key concepts in a document. 2.2.2 Rich Features and Decision Trees Lin and Hovy (1997) studied the importance of a single feature, sentence position. Just weighing a sentence by its position in text, which the authors term as the “position method”, arises from the idea that texts generally follow a predictable discourse structure, and that the sentences of greater topic centrality tend to occur in certain specifiable locations (e.g. title, abstracts, etc). However, since the discourse structure significantly varies over domains, the position method cannot be defined as naively as in (Baxendale, 1958). The paper makes an important contribution by investigating techniques of tailoring the position method towards optimality over a genre and how it can be evaluated for effectiveness. A newswire corpus was used, the collection of Ziff-Davis texts produced from the TIPSTER5 program; it consists of text about computer and related hardware, accompanied by a set of key topic words and a small abstract of six sentences. For each document in the corpus, the authors measured the yield of each sentence position against the topic keywords. They then ranked the sentence positions by their average yield to produce the Optimal Position Policy (OPP) for topic positions for the genre. Two kinds of evaluation were performed. Previously unseen text was used for testing whether the same procedure would work in a different domain. The first evaluation showed contours exactly like the training documents. In the second eval- uation, word overlap of manual abstracts with the extracted sentences was measured. Windows in abstracts were compared with windows on the selected sentences and corresponding precision and recall values were measured. A high degree of coverage indicated the effectiveness of the position method. In later work, Lin (1999) broke away from the assumption that features are independent of each other and tried to model the problem of sentence extraction using decision trees, instead of a naive-Bayes classifier. He examined a lot of fea- tures and their effect on sentence extraction. The data used in this work is a publicly available collection of texts, classified into various topics, provided by the TIPSTER-SUMMAC6 evaluations, targeted towards information retrieval systems. The dataset contains essential text fragments (phrases, clauses, and sentences) which must be included in summaries to answer some TREC topics. These fragments were each evaluated by a human judge. The experiments described in the paper are with the SUMMARIST system developed at the University of Southern California. The system extracted sentences from the documents and those were matched against human extracts, like most early work on extractive summarization. Some novel features were the query signature (normalized score given to sen- tences depending on number of query words that they contain), IR signature (the m most salient words in the corpus, similar to the signature words of (Aone et al., 1999)), numerical data (boolean value 1 given to sentences that contained a num- ber in them), proper name (boolean value 1 given to sentences that contained a proper name in them), pronoun or adjective (boolean value 1 given to sentences See http://www.itl.nist.gov/iaui/894.02/related_projects/tipster/. See http://www-nlpir.nist.gov/related_projects/tipster_summac/index.html. that contained a pronoun or adjective in them), weekday or month (similar as pre- vious feature) and quotation (similar as previous feature). It is worth noting that some features like the query signature are question-oriented because of the setting of the evaluation, unlike a generalized summarization framework. The author experimented with various baselines, like using only the positional feature, or using a simple combination of all features by adding their values. When evaluated by matching machine extracted and human extracted sentences, the deci- sion tree classifier was clearly the winner for the whole dataset, but for three topics, a naive combination of features beat it. Lin conjectured that this happened because some of the features were independent of each other. Feature analysis suggested that the IR signature was a valuable feature, corroborating the early findings of Luhn (1958). 2.2.3 Hidden Markov Models In contrast with previous approaches, that were mostly feature-based and non- sequential, Conroy and O’leary (2001) modeled the problem of extracting a sentence from a document using a hidden Markov model (HMM). The basic motivation for using a sequential model is to account for local dependencies between sentences. Only three features were used: position of the sentence in the document (built into the state structure of the HMM), number of terms in the sentence, and likeliness of the sentence terms given the document terms. no 1 no 2 no 3 no Figure 1: Markov model to extract to three summary sentences from a document (Conroy and O’leary, 2001). The HMM was structured as follows: it contained 2s + 1 states, alternating be- tween s summary states and s + 1 nonsummary states. The authors allowed “hesita- tion” only in nonsummary states and “skipping next state” only in summary states. Figure 1 shows an example HMM with 7 nodes, corresponding to s = 3. Using the TREC dataset as training corpus, the authors obtained the maximum-likelihood estimate for each transition probability, forming the transition matrix estimate M̂ , whose element (i, j) is the empirical probability of transitioning from state i to j. Associated with each state i was an output function, bi (O) = Pr(O | state i) where O is an observed vector of features. They made a simplifying assumption that the features are multivariate normal. The output function for each state was thus esti- mated by using the training data to compute the maximum likelihood estimate of its mean and covariance matrix. They estimated 2s + 1 means, but assumed that all of the output functions shared a common covariance matrix. Evaluation was done by comparing with human generated extracts. 2.2.4 Log-Linear Models Osborne (2002) claims that existing approaches to summarization have always as- sumed feature independence. The author used log-linear models to obviate this assumption and showed empirically that the system produced better extracts than a naive-Bayes model, with a prior appended to both models. Let c be a label, s the item we are interested in labeling, fi the i-th feature, and λi the corresponding feature weight. The conditional log-linear model used by Osborne (2002) can be stated as follows: ! 1 X P (c | s) = exp λi fi (c, s) , (2) Z(s) i P P where Z(s) = c exp ( i λi fi (c, s)). In this domain, there are only two possible labels: either the sentence is to be extracted or it is not. The weights were trained by conjugate gradient descent. The authors added a non-uniform prior to the model, claiming that a log-linear model tends to reject too many sentences for inclusion in a summary. The same prior was also added to a naive-Bayes model for comparison. The classification took place as follows: ! X label(s) = arg max P (c) · P (s, c) = arg max log P (c) + λi fi (c, s) . (3) c∈C c∈C i The authors optimized the prior using the f 2 score of the classifier as an objective function on a part of the dataset (in the technical domain). The summaries were 2pr evaluated using the standard f 2 score where f 2 = p+r , where the precision and recall measures were measured against human generated extracts. The features included word pairs (pairs of words with all words truncated to ten characters), sentence length, sentence position, and naive discourse features like inside introduction or inside conclusion. With respect to f 2 score, the log-linear model outperformed the naive-Bayes classifier with the prior, exhibiting the former’s effectiveness. 2.2.5 Neural Networks and Third Party Features In 2001-02, DUC issued a task of creating a 100-word summary of a single news article. However, the best performing systems in the evaluations could not outper- form the baseline with statistical significance. This extremely strong baseline has been analyzed by Nenkova (2005) and corresponds to the selection of the first n sentences of a newswire article. This surprising result has been attributed to the journalistic convention of putting the most important part of an article in the initial paragraphs. After 2002, the task of single-document summarization for newswire was dropped from DUC. Svore et al. (2007) propose an algorithm based on neu- ral nets and the use of third party datasets to tackle the problem of extractive summarization, outperforming the baseline with statistical significance. The authors used a dataset containing 1365 documents gathered from CNN.com, each consisting of the title, timestamp, three or four human generated story high- lights and the article text. They considered the task of creating three machine highlights. The human generated highlights were not verbatim extractions from the article itself. The authors evaluated their system using two metrics: the first one concatenated the three highlights produced by the system, concatenated the three human generated highlights, and compared these two blocks; the second metric con- sidered the ordering and compared the sentences on an individual level. Svore et al. (2007) trained a model from the labels and the features for each sentence of an article, that could infer the proper ranking of sentences in a test document. The ranking was accomplished using RankNet (Burges et al., 2005), a pair-based neural network algorithm designed to rank a set of inputs that uses the gradient descent method for training. For the training set, they used ROUGE-1 (Lin, 2004) to score the similarity of a human written highlight and a sentence in the document. These similarity scores were used as soft labels during training, contrasting with other approaches where sentences are “hard-labeled”, as selected or not. Some of the used features based on position or n-grams frequencies have been observed in previous work. However, the novelty of the framework lay in the use of features that derived information from query logs from Microsoft’s news search engine7 and Wikipedia8 entries. The authors conjecture that if a document sentence contained keywords used in the news search engine, or entities found in Wikipedia articles, then there is a greater chance of having that sentence in the highlight. The extracts were evaluated using ROUGE-1 and ROUGE-2, and showed statistically significant improvements over the baseline of selecting the first three sentences in a document. 2.3 Deep Natural Language Analysis Methods In this subsection, we describe a set of papers that detail approaches towards single- document summarization involving complex natural language analysis techniques. None of these papers solve the problem using machine learning, but rather use a set of heuristics to create document extracts. Most of these techniques try to model the text’s discourse structure. Barzilay and Elhadad (1997) describe a work that used considerable amount of linguistic analysis for performing the task of summarization. For a better under- standing of their method, we need to define a lexical chain: it is a sequence of related words in a text, spanning short (adjacent words or sentences) or long distances (en- tire text). The authors’ method progressed with the following steps: segmentation of the text, identification of lexical chains, and using strong lexical chains to identify the sentences worthy of extraction. They tried to reach a middle ground between (McKeown and Radev, 1995) and (Luhn, 1958) where the former relied on deep See http://search.live.com/news. See http://en.wikipedia.org. semantic structure of the text, while the latter relied on word statistics of the doc- uments. The authors describe the notion of cohesion in text as a means of sticking together different parts of the text. Lexical cohesion is a notable example where semantically related words are used. For example, let us take a look at the following sentence.9 John bought a Jag. He loves the car. (4) Here, the word car refers to the word Jag in the previous sentence, and exemplifies lexical cohesion. The phenomenon of cohesion occurs not only at the word level, but at word sequences too, resulting in lexical chains, which the authors used as a source representation for summarization. Semantically related words and word sequences were identified in the document, and several chains were extracted, that form a representation of the document. To find out lexical chains, the authors used Wordnet (Miller, 1995), applying three generic steps: 1. Selecting a set of candidate words. 2. For each candidate word, finding an appropriate chain relying on a relatedness criterion among members of the chains, 3. If it is found, inserting the word in the chain and updating it accordingly. The relatedness was measured in terms of Wordnet distance. Simple nouns and noun compounds were used as starting point to find the set of candidates. In the final steps, strong lexical chains were used to create the summaries. The chains were scored by their length and homogeneity. Then the authors used a few heuristics to select the significant sentences. In another paper, Ono et al. (1994) put forward a computational model of dis- course for Japanese expository writings, where they elaborate a practical procedure for extracting the discourse rhetorical structure, a binary tree representing relations between chunks of sentences (rhetorical structure trees are used more intensively in (Marcu, 1998a), as we will see below). This structure was extracted using a series of NLP steps: sentence analysis, rhetorical relation extraction, segmentation, can- didate generation and preference judgement. Evaluation was based on the relative importance of rhetorical relations. In the following step, the nodes of the rhetori- cal structure tree were pruned to reduce the sentence, keeping its important parts. Same was done for paragraphs to finally produce the summary. Evaluation was done with respect to sentence coverage and 30 editorial articles of a Japanese newspaper were used as the dataset. The articles had corresponding sets of key sentences and most important key sentences judged by human subjects. The key sentence coverage was about 51% and the most important key sentence coverage was 74%, indicating encouraging results. Marcu (1998a) describes a unique approach towards summarization that, unlike most other previous work, does not assume that the sentences in a document form a flat sequence. This paper used discourse based heuristics with the traditional Example from http://www.cs.ucd.ie/staff/jcarthy/home/Lex.html. features that have been used in the summarization literature. The discourse theory used in this paper is the Rhetorical Structure Theory (RST) that holds between two non-overlapping pieces of text spans: the nucleus and the satellite. The author mentions that the distinction between nuclei and satellites comes from the empir- ical observation that the nucleus expresses what is more essential to the writer’s purpose than the satellite; and that the nucleus of a rhetorical relation is compre- hensible independent of the satellite, but not vice versa. Marcu (1998b) describes the details of a rhetorical parser producing a discourse tree. Figure 2 shows an example discourse tree for a text example detailed in the paper. Once such a dis- Elaboration 2 8 Elaboration Exemplification 2 3 8 10 Justification Elaboration Concession Antithesis 1 2 3 4 5 7 8 9 10 Contrast 4 5 Evidence 5 6 Figure 2: Example of a discourse tree from Marcu (1998a). The numbers in the nodes denote sentence numbers from the text example. The text below the number in selected nodes are rhetorical relations. The dotted nodes are SATELLITES and the normals ones are the NUCLEI. course structure is created, a partial ordering of important units can be developed from the tree. Each equivalence class in the partial ordering is derived from the new sentences at a particular level of the discourse tree. In Figure 2, we observe that sentence 2 is at the root, followed by sentence 8 in the second level. In the third level, sentence 3 and 10 are observed, and so forth. The equivalence classes are 2 > 8 > 3, 10 > 1, 4, 5, 7, 9 > 6. If it is specified that the summary should contain the top k% of the text, the first k% of the units in the partial ordering can be selected to produce the summary. The author talks about a summarization system based just on this method in (Marcu, 1998b) and in one of his earlier papers. In this paper, he merged the discourse based heuristics with traditional heuristics. The metrics used were clustering based metric (each node in the discourse tree was assigned a cluster score; for leaves the score was 0, for the internal nodes it was given by the similarity of the immediate children; discourse tree A was chosen to be better than B if its clustering score was higher), marker based metric (a discourse structure A was chosen to be better than a discourse structure B if A used more rhetorical relations than B), rhetorical clustering based technique (measured the similarity between salient units of two text spans), shape based metric (preferred a discourse tree A over B if A was more skewed towards the right than B), title based metric, position based metric, connectedness based metric (cosine similarity of an unit to all other text units, a discourse structure A was chosen to be better than B if its connectedness measure was more than B). A weighted linear combination of all these scores gave the score of a discourse structure. To find the best combination of heuristics, the author computed the weights that maximized the F-score on the training dataset, which was constituted by newswire articles. To do this, he used a GSAT-like algorithm (Selman et al., 1992) that performed a greedy search in a seven dimensional space of the metrics. For a part of his corpus (the TREC dataset), a best F-score of 75.42% was achieved for the 10% summaries which was 3.5% higher than a baseline lead based algorithm, which was very encouraging. 3 Multi-Document Summarization Extraction of a single summary from multiple documents has gained interest since mid 1990s, most applications being in the domain of news articles. Several Web- based news clustering systems were inspired by research on multi-document summa- rization, for example Google News,10 Columbia NewsBlaster,11 or News In Essence.12 This departs from single-document summarization since the problem involves mul- tiple sources of information that overlap and supplement each other, being contra- dictory at occasions. So the key tasks are not only identifying and coping with redundancy across documents, but also recognizing novelty and ensuring that the final summary is both coherent and complete. The field seems to have been pioneered by the NLP group at Columbia University (McKeown and Radev, 1995), where a summarization system called SUMMONS13 was developed by extending already existing technology for template-driven message understanding systems. Although in that early stage multi-document summariza- tion was mainly seen as a task requiring substantial capabilities of both language interpretation and generation, it later gained autonomy, as people coming from dif- ferent communities added new perspectives to the problem. Extractive techniques have been applied, making use of similarity measures between pairs of sentences. Approaches vary on how these similarities are used: some identify common themes through clustering and then select one sentence to represent each cluster (McKeown See http://news.google.com. See http://newsblaster.cs.columbia.edu. See http://NewsInEssence.com. SUMMarizing Online NewS articles. et al., 1999; Radev et al., 2000), others generate a composite sentence from each cluster (Barzilay et al., 1999), while some approaches work dynamically by includ- ing each candidate passage only if it is considered novel with respect to the previous included passages, via maximal marginal relevance (Carbonell and Goldstein, 1998). Some recent work extends multi-document summarization to multilingual environ- ments (Evans, 2005). The way the problem is posed has also varied over time. While in some pub- lications it is claimed that extractive techniques would not be effective for multi- document summarization (McKeown and Radev, 1995; McKeown et al., 1999), some years later that claim was overturned, as extractive systems like MEAD14 (Radev et al., 2000) achieved good performance in large scale summarization of news arti- cles. This can be explained by the fact that summarization systems often distinguish among themselves about what their goal actually is. While some systems, like SUM- MONS, are designed to work in strict domains, aiming to build a sort of briefing that highlights differences and updates accross different news reports, putting much emphasis on how information is presented to the user, others, like MEAD, are large scale systems that intend to work in general domains, being more concerned with information content rather than form. Consequently, systems of the former kind re- quire a strong effort on language generation to produce a grammatical and coherent summary, while latter systems are probably more close to the information retrieval paradigm. Abstractive systems like SUMMONS are difficult to replicate, as they heavily rely on the adaptation of internal tools to perform information extraction and language generation. On the other hand, extractive systems are generally easy to implement from scratch, and this makes them appealing when sophisticated NLP tools are not available. 3.1 Abstraction and Information Fusion As far as we know, SUMMONS (McKeown and Radev, 1995; Radev and McKeown, 1998) is the first historical example of a multi-document summarization system. It tackles single events about a narrow domain (news articles about terrorism) and produces a briefing merging relevant information about each event and how reports by different news agencies have evolved over time. The whole thread of reports is then presented, as illustrated in the following example of a “good” summary: “In the afternoon of February 26, 1993, Reuters reported that a suspect bomb killed at least five people in the World Trade Center. However, Associated Press announced that exactly five people were killed in the blast. Finally, Associated Press announced that Arab terrorists were possibly responsible for the terrorist act.” Rather than working with raw text, SUMMONS reads a database previously built by a template-based message understanding system. A full multi-document Available for download at http://www.summarization.com/mead/. summarizer is built by concatenating the two systems, first processing full text as input and filling template slots, and then synthesizing a summary from the extracted information. The architecture of SUMMONS consists of two major components: a content planner that selects the information to include in the summary through combination of the input templates, and a linguistic generator that selects the right words to express the information in grammatical and coherent text. The latter component was devised by adapting existing language generation tools, namely the FUF/SURGE system15 . Content planning, on the other hand, is made through summary operators, a set of heuristic rules that perform operations like “change of perspective”, “contradiction”, “refinement”, etc. Some of these operations require resolving conflicts, i.e., contradictory information among different sources or time instants; others complete pieces of information that are included in some articles and not in others, combining them into a single template. At the end, the linguis- tic generator gathers all the combined information and uses connective phrases to synthesize a summary. While this framework seems promising when the domain is narrow enough so that the templates can be designed by hand, a generalization for broader domains would be problematic. This was improved later by McKeown et al. (1999) and Barzilay et al. (1999), where the input is now a set of related documents in raw text, like those retrieved by a standard search engine in response to a query. The system starts by identifying themes, i.e., sets of similar text units (usually paragraphs). This is formulated as a clustering problem. To compute a similarity measure between text units, these are mapped to vectors of features, that include single words weighted by their TF-IDF scores, noun phrases, proper nouns, synsets from the Wordnet database and a database of semantic classes of verbs. For each pair of paragraphs, a vector is computed that represents matches on the different features. Decision rules that were learned from data are then used to classify each pair of text units either as similar or dissimilar ; this in turn feeds a subsequent algorithm that places the most related paragraphs in the same theme. Once themes are identified, the system enters its second stage: information fu- sion. The goal is to decide which sentences of a theme should be included in the summary. Rather than just picking a sentence that is a group representative, the authors propose an algorithm which compares and intersects predicate argument structures of the phrases within each theme to determine which are repeated often enough to be included in the summary. This is done as follows: first, sentences are parsed through Collins’ statistical parser (Collins, 1999) and converted into depen- dency trees, which allows capturing the predicate-argument structure and identify functional roles. Determiners and auxiliaries are dropped; Fig. 3 shows a sentence representation. The comparison algorithm then traverses these dependency trees recursively, adding identical nodes to the output tree. Once full phrases (a verb with at least two constituents) are found, they are marked to be included in the summary. If two FUF, SURGE, and other tools developed by the Columbia NLP group are available at http://www1.cs.columbia.edu/nlp/tools.cgi. and Kan 1998]. We match two verbs that share the same semantic class in this classifi cation. charge class: verb voice :passive In addition to the above primitive features that all com- tense: past polarity: + pare single items from each text unit, we use composite fea- t tures that combine pairs of primitive features. Our compos- jec sub ite features impose particular constraints on the order of the two elements in the pair, on the maximum distance between the two elements, and on the syntactic classes that the two McVeigh with class: noun class: preposition elements come from. They can vary from a simple com- bination (e.g., “two text units must share two words to be similar”) to complex cases with many conditions (e.g., “two text units must have matching noun phrases that appear in the same order and with relative difference in position no 27 bombing class: cardinal class: noun more than fi ve”). In this manner, we capture information definite: yes on how similarly related elements are spaced out in the two text units, as well as syntactic information on word combi- Figure 4: Dependency grammar representation of the sen- nations. Matches on composite features indicate combined tence “McVeigh, 27, was charged with the bombing”. two units. 3: Dependency tree representing the sentence “McVeigh, 27, was charged evidence for the similarity of the Figure To determine whether the units match overall, we employ a machine learning algorithm [Cohenwith 1996 ] thatbombing” the induces de- (extracted from (McKeown et al., 1999)). sentence that meets some criteria (e.g., a threshold number cision rules using the features that really make a difference. of common content words). In practice, however, any repre- A set of pairs of units already marked as similar or not by a sentative sentence will usually include embedded phrase(s) human is used for training the classifi er. We have manually containing phrases, from marked a set of 8,225 paragraph comparisons rootedthe TDT at some are notthat node,information is not common identical buttoyet all sentences in the theme. Furthermore, other sentences in the theme of- similar, the hypothesis that our similarity corpus for training and evaluatingthey are classifi paraphrases er. ten each of contain other additional is considered; information to not presented in thethis take rep- into account, corpus- For comparison, we also use an implementation of the resentative sentence. Our approach, therefore, uses inter- TF*IDF method which is standard driven paraphrasing for matching texts in in- rules are written to allow paraphrase section among theme sentences to identify phrases common intersection.16 Once the formation retrieval. We compute the total frequency (TF) of to most paragraphs and then generates a new sentence from summary words in each text unit and the number of units in our train- (represented content as predicate-argument structures) is decided, a gram- identifi ed phrases. ing set each word appears in (DF, or document matical textfrequency). is generated by translating those structures into the arguments expected Then each text unit is represented as a vector of TF*IDF among Theme system. Intersection generation Sentences scores, calculated as by the FUF/SURGE language Intersection is carried out in the content planner, which uses Total number of units a parser for interpreting the input sentences, with our new TF(wordi ) · log DF(wordi ) work focusing on the comparison of phrases. Theme sen- 3.2 Topic-driven tences Summarization and MMR are fi rst run through a statistical parser[Collins 1996] Similarity between text units is measured by the cosine of and then, in order to identify functional roles (e.g., subject, the angle between the corresponding two vectorsand Carbonell (i.e., Goldstein the (1998) made a majorgrammar contribution object), are converted to a dependency representa- to topic-driven sum- normalized inner product of the two vectors), and the opti- tion [Kittredge and Mel’čuk 1983], which makes predicate- marization mal value of a threshold for judging by introducing two units as similar is the maximal argument structure explicit. marginal relevance (MMR) measure. The computed from the training set. idea is to combine queryWerelevance After all pairwise similarities between text units have with information developed a rule-based component to produce func- it may be applicable novelty; tional roles, which transforms the phrase-structure output of in several been calculated, we utilize a clustering algorithm tasks to iden-ranging from Collins’ parser to dependency grammar; function words (de-summarization. MMR text retrieval to topic-driven tify themes. As a paragraph may belong to multiple themes, simultaneously rewards terminers relevantand auxiliaries) sentences are eliminated from the tree and penalizes and redundant ones by consid- most standard clustering algorithms, which partition their corresponding syntactic features are updated. An example input set, are not suitable for our task. We use a greedy, ering a linear combination two similarity of sentence measures. of a theme and its dependency grammar represen- one-pass algorithm that fi rst constructs groups from the most Let tation are shown and4. Each in Figure R anon-auxiliary wordofin the similar paragraphs, seeding the groups withQ thebe query or fullyacon- user profile ranked list documents retrieved by sentence has a node in the representation, and this node is nected subcomponents of the graph that the similarity rela- a search engine. Consider tionship induces over the set of paragraphs, and then places connectedan toincremental procedure that selects documents, one at its direct dependents. The comparison algorithm starts with all subtrees rooted a time, additional paragraphs within a group if the and fraction of thethem to a set S. So let S be the set of already selected documents adds at verbs from the input dependency structure, and traverses members of the group they are similar to exceeds a preset threshold. in a particular step, and themR \ S theif two recursively: setnodes of yet they are documents unselected are identical, added in R. For each to the output tree, and their children are compared. Once candidate document Da ifull R \ S, ∈ phrase (verb marginal itswith at least two relevance constituents) hasMR(Dbeen i ) is computed as: Language Generation found, it is confi rmed for inclusion in the summary. Given a group of similar paragraphs—a theme—the prob- Diffi culties arise when two nodes are not identical, but are lem is to create a concise and fluent fusion of information MR(D in ) := λSim isimilar. 1 (Di ,may Such phrases (1 − λ)ofmax Q)be−paraphrases Simand each other 2 (Di , Dj ) (5) D ∈S this theme, reflecting facts common to all paragraphs. A still convey essentially the same information.j Since theme Number of MUs in the model summary An interesting study is presented that shows how unstable the human markings for overlapping units are. For multiple systems, the coverage scores assigned to the same units were different by human assessors 18% of the time for the single document task and 7.6% of the time for multi-document task. The authors also observe that inter-human agreement is quite low in creating extracts from documents (∼ 40% for single-documents and ∼ 29% for multi-documents). To overcome the instability of human evaluations, they proposed using automatic metrics for summary evaluation. Inspired by the machine translation evaluation metric BLEU (Papineni et al., 2001), they outline an accumulative n-gram matching score (which they call NAMS), NAMS = a1 · NAM1 + a2 · NAM2 + a3 · NAM3 + a4 · NAM4 , (14) where the NAMn n-gram hit ratio is defined as: # of matched n-grams between MU and S (15) total # of n-grams in MU with S denoting here the whole system summary, and where only content words were used in forming the n-grams. Different configurations of ai were tried; the best correlation with human judgement (using Spearman’s rank order correlation coefficient) was achieved using a configuration giving 2/3 weight to bigram matches and 1/3 to unigrams matches with stemming done by the Porter stemmer. 5.2 ROUGE Lin (2004) introduced a set of metrics called Recall-Oriented Understudy for Gist- ing Evaluation (ROUGE)23 that have become standards of automatic evaluation of summaries. In what follows, let R = {r1 , . . . , rm } be a set of reference summaries, and let s be a summary generated automatically by some system. Let Φn (d) be a binary vector representing the n-grams contained in a document d; the i-th component φin (d) is 1 if the i-th n-gram is contained in d and 0 otherwise. The metric ROUGE-N is an n-gram recall based statistic that can be computed as follows: P hΦn (r), Φn (s)i ROUGE-N(s) = Pr∈R , (16) r∈R hΦn (r), Φn (r)i where h., .i denotes the usual inner product of vectors. This measure is closely related to BLEU which is a precision related measure. Unlike other measures previously considered, ROUGE-N can be used for multiple reference summaries, which is quite useful in practical situations. An alternative is taking the most similar summary in the reference set, hΦn (r), Φn (s)i ROUGE-Nmulti (s) = max . (17) r∈R hΦn (r), Φn (r)i Another metric in (Lin, 2004) applies the concept of longest common subse- quences 24 (LCS). The rationale is: the longer the LCS between two summary sen- tences, the more similar they are. Let r1 , . . . , ru be the reference sentences of the documents in R, and s a candidate summary (considered as a concatenation of sentences). The ROUGE-L is defined as an LCS based F-measure: (1 + β 2 )RLCS PLCS ROUGE-L(s) = (18) RLCS + β 2 PLCS See http://openrouge.com/default.aspx. A subsequence of a string s = s1 . . . sn is a string of the form si1 . . . sin where 1 ≤ i1 < . . . in ≤ n. Pu Pu LCS(r ,s) i LCS(r ,s) where RLCS (s) = i=1 Pu , PLCS (s) = i=1 |s| i , |x| denotes the length of i=1 |ri | sentence x, LCS(x, y) denotes the length of the LCS between sentences x and y, and β is a (usually large) parameter to balance precision and recall. Notice that the LCS function may be computed by a simple dynamic programming approach. The metric (18) is further refined by including weights that penalize subsequence matches that are not consecutive, yielding a new measure denoted ROUGE-W. Yet another measure introduced by Lin (2004) is ROUGE-S, which can be seen as a gappy version of ROUGE-N for n = 2 and is aptly called skip bigram. Let Ψ2 (d) be a binary vector indexed by ordered pairs of words; the i-th component ψ2i (d) is 1 if the i-th pair is a subsequence of d and 0 otherwise. The metric ROUGE-S is computed as follows: (1 + β 2 )RS PS ROUGE-S(s) = (19) RS + β 2 PS Pu Pu hΨ (r ),Ψ (s)i hΨ (r ),Ψ (s)i where RS (s) = Pui=1hΨ22(rii),Ψ22(ri )i and PS (s) = i=1 2 i 2 hΨ2 (s),Ψ2 (s)i . i=1 The various versions of ROUGE were evaluated by computing the correlation coefficient between ROUGE scores and human judgement scores. ROUGE-2 per- formed the best among the ROUGE-N variants. ROUGE-L, ROUGE-W, and ROUGE-S all performed very well on the DUC-2001 and DUC-2002 datasets. How- ever, correlation achieved with human judgement for multi-document summarization was not as high as single-document ones; improvement on this side of the paradigm is an open research topic. 5.3 Information-theoretic Evaluation of Summaries A very recent approach (Lin et al., 2006) proposes to use an information-theoretic method to automatic evaluation of summaries. The central idea is to use a diver- gence measure between a pair of probability distributions, in this case the Jensen- Shannon divergence, where the first distribution is derived from an automatic sum- mary and the second from a set of reference summaries. This approach has the advantage of suiting both the single-document and the multi-document summariza- tion scenarios. Let D = {d1 , . . . , dn } be the set of documents to summarize (which is a singleton set in the case of single-document summarization). Assume that a distribution parameterized by θR generates reference summaries of the documents in D. The task of summarization can be seen as that of estimating θR . Analogously, assume that every summarization system is governed by some distribution parameterized by θA . Then, we may define a good summarizer as one for which θA is close to θR . One information-theoretic measure between distributions that is adequate for this is the KL divergence (Cover and Thomas, 1991), m X pθA θA KL(p ||p ) = θR pθi A log θi . (20) i=1 pi R However, the KL divergence is unbounded and goes to infinity whenever pθi A vanishes and pθi R does not, which requires using some kind of smoothing when estimating the distributions. Lin et al. (2006) claims that the measure used here should also be symmetric,25 another thing that the KL divergence is not. Hence, they propose to use the Jensen-Shannon divergence which is bounded and symmetric:26 1 1 JS(pθA ||pθR ) = KL(pθA ||r) + KL(pθR ||r) = 2 2 1 1 = H(r) − H(pθA ) − H(pθA ), (21) 2 2 where r = 12 pθA + 12 pθR is the average distribution. To evaluate a summary SA given a reference summary SR , the authors propose to use the negative JS divergence between the estimates of pθA and pθR given the summaries, score(SA |SR ) = −JS(pθ̂A ||pθ̂R ) (22) The parameters are estimated via a posteriori maximization assuming a multi- nomial generation model for each summary (which means that they are modeled as bags-of-words) and using Dirichlet priors (the conjugate priors of the multinomial family). So: θ̂A = arg max p(SA |θA )p(θA ), (23) θA number of distinct words, a1 , . . . , am being the word counts in where (m being theP the summary, a0 = mi=1 ai ) m Γ(a0 + 1) Y p(SA |θA ) = Qm θA,i ai (24) i=1 Γ(a i + 1) i=1 and m Γ(α0 ) Y p(θA ) = Qm θA,i αi −1 (25) i=1 Γ(αi ) i=1 where αi are hyper-parameters and α0 = m P i=1 αi . After some algebra, we get ai + αi − 1 θ̂A,i = (26) a0 + α0 − m which is similar to MLE with smoothing.27 θ̂R is estimated analogously using the reference summary SR . Not surprisingly, if we have more than one reference sum- mary, the MAP estimation given all summaries equals MAP estimation given their concatenation into a single summary. However, the authors do not give much support for this claim. In our view, there is no reason to require symmetry. Although this is not mentioned in (Lin et al., 2006), the Jensen-Shannon divergence also satisfies the axioms to be a squared metric, as shown by Endres and Schindelin (2003). It has also a plethora of properties that are presented elsewhere, but this is out of scope of this survey. In particular if αi = 1 it is just maximum likelihood estimation (MLE). The authors experimented three automatic evaluation schemes (JS with smooth- ing, JS without smoothing, and KL divergence) against manual evaluation; the best performance was achieved by JS without smoothing. This is not surprising since, as seen above, the JS divergence is bounded, unlike the KL divergence, and so it does not require smoothing. Smoothing has the effect of pulling the two distributions more close to the uniform distribution. 6 Conclusion The rate of information growth due to the World Wide Web has called for a need to develop efficient and accurate summarization systems. Although research on summarization started about 50 years ago, there is still a long trail to walk in this field. Over time, attention has drifted from summarizing scientific articles to news articles, electronic mail messages, advertisements, and blogs. Both abstractive and extractive approaches have been attempted, depending on the application at hand. Usually, abstractive summarization requires heavy machinery for language generation and is difficult to replicate or extend to broader domains. In contrast, simple extraction of sentences have produced satisfactory results in large-scale ap- plications, specially in multi-document summarization. The recent popularity of effective newswire summarization systems confirms this claim. This survey emphasizes extractive approaches to summarization using statisti- cal methods. A distinction has been made between single document and multi- document summarization. Since a lot of interesting work is being done far from the mainstream research in this field, we have chosen to include a brief discussion on some methods that we found relevant to future research, even if they focus only on small details related to a general summarization process and not on building an entire summarization system. Finally, some recent trends in automatic evaluation of summarization systems have been surveyed. The low inter-annotator agreement figures observed during manual evaluations suggest that the future of this research area heavily depends on the ability to find efficient ways of automatically evaluating these systems and on the development of measures that are objective enough to be commonly accepted by the research community. Acknowledgements We would like to thank Noah Smith and Einat Minkov for valuable suggestions during the course of the survey. We would also like to thank Alex Rudnicky and Mohit Kumar for insightful discussions at various points during 2006-2007.
