Fichier : Gonzalez_2018_Wisebe.pdf
Titre : WiSeBE: Window-Based Sentence
Auteurs : Boundary Evaluation ; Carlos-Emiliano González-Gallardo1,2(B) and Juan-Manuel Torres-Moreno1,2
Emails : 
Resume : Sentence Boundary Detection (SBD) has been a major research topic since Automatic Speech Recognition transcripts have been used for further Natural Language Processing tasks like Part of Speech Tagging, Question Answering or Automatic Summarization. But what about evaluation? Do standard evaluation metrics like precision, recall, F-score or classiﬁcation error; and more important, evaluating an auto- matic system against a unique reference is enough to conclude how well a SBD system is performing given the ﬁnal application of the transcript? In this paper we propose Window-based Sentence Boundary Evaluation (WiSeBE), a semi-supervised metric for evaluating Sentence Boundary Detection systems based on multi-reference (dis)agreement. We evalu- ate and compare the performance of diﬀerent SBD systems over a set of Youtube transcripts using WiSeBE and standard metrics. This dou- ble evaluation gives an understanding of how WiSeBE is a more reliable metric for the SBD task. Keywords: Sentence Boundary Detection · Evaluation Transcripts · Human judgment 1 Introduction The goal of Automatic Speech Recognition (ASR) is to transform spoken data into a written representation, thus enabling natural human-machine interaction [33] with further Natural Language Processing (NLP) tasks. Machine transla- tion, question answering, semantic parsing, POS tagging, sentiment analysis and automatic text summarization; originally developed to work with formal writ- ten texts, can be applied over the transcripts made by ASR systems [2,25,31]. However, before applying any of these NLP tasks a segmentation process called Sentence Boundary Detection (SBD) should be performed over ASR transcripts to reach a minimal syntactic information in the text. To measure the performance of a SBD system, the automatically segmented transcript is evaluated against a single reference normally done by a human. But c Springer Nature Switzerland AG 2018 I. Batyrshin et al. (Eds.): MICAI 2018, LNAI 11289, pp. 119–131, 2018. https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-030-04497-8_10 120 C.-E. González-Gallardo and J.-M. Torres-Moreno given a transcript, does it exist a unique reference? Or, is it possible that the same transcript could be segmented in ﬁve diﬀerent ways by ﬁve diﬀerent people in the same conditions? If so, which one is correct; and more important, how to fairly evaluate the automatically segmented transcript? These questions are the foundations of Window-based Sentence Boundary Evaluation (WiSeBE), a new semi-supervised metric for evaluating SBD systems based on multi-reference (dis)agreement. The rest of this article is organized as follows. In Sect. 2 we set the frame of SBD and how it is normally evaluated. WiSeBE is formally described in Sect. 3, followed by a multi-reference evaluation in Sect. 4. Further analysis of WiSeBE and discussion over the method and alternative multi-reference evaluation is presented in Sect. 5. Finally, Sect. 6 concludes the paper. 2 Sentence Boundary Detection Sentence Boundary Detection (SBD) has been a major research topic science ASR moved to more general domains as conversational speech [17,24,26]. Per- formance of ASR systems has improved over the years with the inclusion and combination of new Deep Neural Networks methods [5,9,33]. As a general rule, the output of ASR systems lacks of any syntactic information such as capital- ization and sentence boundaries, showing the interest of ASR systems to obtain the correct sequence of words with almost no concern of the overall structure of the document [8]. Similar to SBD is the Punctuation Marks Disambiguation (PMD) or Sentence Boundary Disambiguation. This task aims to segment a formal written text into well formed sentences based on the existent punctuation marks [11,19,20,29]. In this context a sentence is deﬁned (for English) by the Cambridge Dictionary1 as: “a group of words, usually containing a verb, that expresses a thought in the form of a statement, question, instruction, or exclamation and starts with a capital letter when written”. PMD carries certain complications, some given the ambiguity of punctuation marks within a sentence. A period can denote an acronym, an abbreviation, the end of the sentence or a combination of them as in the following example: The U.S. president, Mr. Donald Trump, is meeting with the F.B.I. director Christopher A. Wray next Thursday at 8 p.m. However its diﬃculties, DPM proﬁts of morphological and lexical information to achieve a correct sentence segmentation. By contrast, segmenting an ASR transcript should be done without any (or almost any) lexical information and a ﬂurry deﬁnition of sentence. https://dictionary.cambridge.org/. WiSeBE: Window-Based Sentence Boundary Evaluation 121 The obvious division in spoken language may be considered speaker utter- ances. However, in a normal conversation or even in a monologue, the way ideas are organized diﬀers largely from written text. This diﬀerences, added to disﬂu- encies like revisions, repetitions, restarts, interruptions and hesitations make the deﬁnition of a sentence unclear thus complicating the segmentation task [27]. Table 1 exempliﬁes some of the diﬃculties that are present when working with spoken language. Table 1. Sentence Boundary Detection example Speech transcript SBD applied to transcript two two women can look out after two // two women can look out a kid so bad as a man and a after a kid so bad as a man and a woman can so you can have a you woman can // so you can have a can have a mother and a father // you can have a mother and a that that still don’t do right with father that // that still don’t do the kid and you can have to men right with the kid and you can that can so as long as the love have to men that can // so as each other as long as they love long as the love each other // as each other it doesn’t matter long as they love each other it doesn’t matter// Stolcke and Shriberg [26] considered a set of linguistic structures as segments including the following list: – Complete sentences – Stand-alone sentences – Disﬂuent sentences aborted in mid-utterance – Interjections – Back-channel responses. In [17], Meteer and Iyer divided speaker utterances into segments, consisting each of a single independent clause. A segment was considered to begin either at the beginning of an utterance, or after the end of the preceding segment. Any dysﬂuency between the end of the previous segments and the begging of current one was considered part of the current segments. Rott and Červa [23] aimed to summarize news delivered orally segmenting the transcripts into “something that is similar to sentences”. They used a syntactic analyzer to identify the phrases within the text. A wide study focused in unbalanced data for the SBD task was performed by Liu et al. [15]. During this study they followed the segmentation scheme pro- posed by the Linguistic Data Consortium2 on the Simple Metadata Annotation Speciﬁcation V5.0 guideline (SimpleMDE V5.0) [27], dividing the transcripts in Semantic Units. https://www.ldc.upenn.edu/. 122 C.-E. González-Gallardo and J.-M. Torres-Moreno A Semantic Unit (SU) is considered to be an atomic element of the transcript that manages to express a complete thought or idea on the part of the speaker [27]. Sometimes a SU corresponds to the equivalent of a sentence in written text, but other times (the most part of them) a SU corresponds to a phrase or a single word. SUs seem to be an inclusive conception of a segment, they embrace diﬀerent previous segment deﬁnitions and are ﬂexible enough to deal with the majority of spoken language troubles. For these reasons we will adopt SUs as our segment deﬁnition. 2.1 Sentence Boundary Evaluation SBD research has been focused on two diﬀerent aspects; features and methods. Regarding the features, some work focused on acoustic elements like pauses duration, fundamental frequencies, energy, rate of speech, volume change and speaker turn [10,12,14]. The other kind of features used in SBD are textual or lexical features. They rely on the transcript content to extract features like bag-of-word, POS tags or word embeddings [7,12,16,18,23,26,30]. Mixture of acoustic and lexical features have also been explored [1,13,14,32], which is advantageous when both audio signal and transcript are available. With respect to the methods used for SBD, they mostly rely on statisti- cal/neural machine translation [12,22], language models [8,15,18,26], conditional random ﬁelds [16,30] and deep neural networks [3,7,29]. Despite their diﬀerences in features and/or methodology, almost all previous cited research share a common element; the evaluation methodology. Metrics as Precision, Recall, F1-score, Classiﬁcation Error Rate and Slot Error Rate (SER) are used to evaluate the proposed system against one reference. As discussed in Sect. 1, further NLP tasks rely on the result of SBD, meaning that is crucial to have a good segmentation. But comparing the output of a system against a unique reference will provide a reliable score to decide if the system is good or bad? Bohac et al. [1] compared the human ability to punctuate recognized spon- taneous speech. They asked 10 people (correctors) to punctuate about 30 min of ASR transcripts in Czech. For an average of 3,962 words, the punctuation marks placed by correctors varied between 557 and 801; this means a diﬀerence of 244 segments for the same transcript. Over all correctors, the absolute consensus for period (.) was only 4.6% caused by the replacement of other punctuation marks as semicolons (;) and exclamation marks (!). These results are understandable if we consider the diﬃculties presented previously in this section. To our knowledge, the amount of studies that have tried to target the sentence boundary evaluation with a multi-reference approach is very small. In [1], Bohac et al. evaluated the overall punctuation accuracy for Czech in a straightforward multi-reference framework. They considered a period (.) valid if at least ﬁve of their 10 correctors agreed on its position. WiSeBE: Window-Based Sentence Boundary Evaluation 123 Kolář and Lamel [13] considered two independent references to evaluate their system and proposed two approaches. The ﬁst one was to calculate the SER for each of one the two available references and then compute their mean. They found this approach to be very strict because for those boundaries where no agreement between references existed, the system was going to be partially wrong even the fact that it has correctly predicted the boundary. Their second app- roach tried to moderate the number of unjust penalizations. For this case, a classiﬁcation was considered incorrect only if it didn’t match either of the two references. These two examples exemplify the real need and some straightforward solu- tions for multi-reference evaluation metrics. However, we think that it is possible to consider in a more inclusive approach the similarities and diﬀerences that mul- tiple references could provide into a sentence boundary evaluation protocol. 3 Window-Based Sentence Boundary Evaluation Window-Based Sentence Boundary Evaluation (WiSeBE) is a semi-automatic multi-reference sentence boundary evaluation protocol which considers the per- formance of a candidate segmentation over a set of segmentation references and the agreement between those references. Let R = {R1 , R2 , ..., Rm } be the set of all available references given a tran- script T = {t1 , t2 , ..., tn }, where tj is the j th word in the transcript; a reference Ri is deﬁned as a binary vector in terms of the existent SU boundaries in T . Ri = {b1 , b2 , ..., bn } (1) where  1 if tj is a boundary bj = 0 otherwise Given a transcript T , the candidate segmentation CT is deﬁned similar to Ri . CT = {b1 , b2 , ..., bn } (2) where  1 if tj is a boundary bj = 0 otherwise 3.1 General Reference and Agreement Ratio A General Reference (RG ) is then constructed to calculate the agreement ratio between all references in. It is deﬁned by the boundary frequencies of each ref- erence Ri ∈ R. RG = {d1 , d2 , ..., dn } (3) where 124 C.-E. González-Gallardo and J.-M. Torres-Moreno  m dj = tij ∀tj ∈ T, dj = [0, m] (4) i=1 The Agreement Ratio (RGAR ) is needed to get a numerical value of the dis- tribution of SU boundaries over R. A value of RGAR close to 0 means a low agreement between references in R, while RGAR = 1 means a perfect agreement (∀Ri ∈ R, Ri = Ri+1 |i = 1, ..., m − 1) in R. R GP B RGAR = (5) RGHA In the equation above, RGP B corresponds to the ponderated common boundaries of RG and RGHA to its hypothetical maximum agreement.  n R GP B = dj [dj ≥ 2] (6) j=1  RGHA = m × 1 [dj = 0] (7) dj ∈RG 3.2 Window-Boundaries Reference In Sect. 2 we discussed about how disﬂuencies complicate SU segmentation. In a multi-reference environment this causes disagreement between references around a same SU boundary. The way WiSeBE handle disagreements produced by dis- ﬂuencies is with a Window-boundaries Reference (RW ) deﬁned as: RW = {w1 , w2 , ..., wp } (8) where each window wk considers one or more boundaries dj from RG with a window separation limit equal to RWl . wk = {dj , dj+1 , dj+2 , ...} (9) 3.3 W iSeBE WiSeBE is a normalized score dependent of (1) the performance of CT over RW and (2) the agreement between all references in R. It is deﬁned as: W iSeBE = F 1RW × RGAR W iSeBE = [0, 1] (10) where F 1RW corresponds to the harmonic mean of precision and recall of CT with respect to RW (Eq. 11), while RGAR is the agreement ratio deﬁned in (5). RGAR can be interpreted as a scaling factor; a low value will penalize the overall WiSeBE score given the low agreement between references. By contrast, for a high agreement in R (RGAR ≈ 1), W iSeBE ≈ F 1RW . WiSeBE: Window-Based Sentence Boundary Evaluation 125 precisionRW × recallRW F 1RW = 2 × (11) precisionRW + recallRW  bj ∈CT 1 [bj = 1, bj ∈ w ∀w ∈ RW ] precisionRW =  (12) bj ∈CT 1 [bj = 1]  wk ∈RW 1 [wk  b ∀b ∈ CT ] recallRW = (13) p Equations 12 and 13 describe precision and recall of CT with respect to RW . Precision is the number of boundaries bj inside any window wk from RW divided by the total number of boundaries bj in CT . Recall corresponds to the number of windows w with at least one boundary b divided by the number of windows w in RW . 4 Evaluating with W iSeBE To exemplify the W iSeBE score we evaluated and compared the performance of two diﬀerent SBD systems over a set of YouTube videos in a multi-reference environment. The ﬁrst system (S1) employs a Convolutional Neural Network to determine if the middle word of a sliding window corresponds to a SU bound- ary or not [6]. The second approach (S2) by contrast, introduces a bidirectional Recurrent Neural Network model with attention mechanism for boundary detec- tion [28]. In a ﬁrst glance we performed the evaluation of the systems against each one of the references independently. Then, we implemented a multi-reference evaluation with W iSeBE. 4.1 Dataset We focused evaluation over a small but diversiﬁed dataset composed by 10 YouTube videos in the English language in the news context. The selected videos cover diﬀerent topics like technology, human rights, terrorism and politics with a length variation between 2 and 10 min. To encourage the diversity of content format we included newscasts, interviews, reports and round tables. During the transcription phase we opted for a manual transcription process because we observed that using transcripts from an ASR system will diﬃcult in a large degree the manual segmentation process. The number of words per transcript oscilate between 271 and 1,602 with a total number of 8,080. We gave clear instructions to three evaluators (ref1 , ref2 , ref3 ) of how seg- mentation was needed to be perform, including the SU concept and how punctu- ation marks were going to be taken into account. Periods (.), question marks (?), exclamation marks (!) and semicolons (;) were considered SU delimiters (bound- aries) while colons (:) and commas (,) were considered as internal SU marks. The number of segments per transcript and reference can be seen in Table 2. An interesting remark is that ref3 assigns about 43% less boundaries than the mean of the other two references. 126 C.-E. González-Gallardo and J.-M. Torres-Moreno Table 2. Manual dataset segmentation Reference v1 v2 v3 v4 v5 v6 v7 v8 v9 v10 Total ref1 38 42 17 11 55 87 109 72 55 16 502 ref2 33 42 16 14 54 98 92 65 51 20 485 ref3 23 20 10 6 39 39 76 30 29 9 281 4.2 Evaluation We ran both systems (S1 & S2) over the manually transcribed videos obtaining the number of boundaries shown in Table 3. In general, it can be seen that S1 predicts 27% more segments than S2. This diﬀerence can aﬀect the performance of S1, increasing its probabilities of false positives. Table 3. Automatic dataset segmentation System v1 v2 v3 v4 v5 v6 v7 v8 v9 v10 Total S1 53 38 15 13 54 108 106 70 71 11 539 S2 38 37 12 11 36 92 86 46 53 13 424 Table 4 condenses the performance of both systems evaluated against each one of the references independently. If we focus on F1 scores, performance of both systems varies depending of the reference. For ref1 , S1 was better in 5 occasions with respect of S2; S1 was better in 2 occasions only for ref2 ; S1 overperformed S2 in 3 occasions concerning ref3 and in 4 occasions for mean (bold). Also from Table 4 we can observe that ref1 has a bigger similarity to S1 in
