Fichier : Iria_Juan-Manuel_Gerardo.pdf
Titre : On the Development of the RST Spanish Treebank Iria da Cunha Juan-Manuel Torres-Moreno Gerardo Sierra
Auteurs : Linguistics (UPF), Spain d’Avignon (UAPV), France Mexico ; Thompson (1988), the web site of RST 1 and the
Emails : 
Resume : RST review by Taboada and Mann (2006a). RST has been used to develop several In this article we present the RST Spanish applications, like automatic summarization, Treebank, the first corpus annotated with information extraction (IE), text generation, rhetorical relations for this language. We question-answering, automatic translation, etc. describe the characteristics of the corpus, (Taboada and Mann, 2006b). Nevertheless, most of the annotation criteria, the annotation these works have been developed for English, procedure, the inter-annotator agreement, German or Portuguese. This is due to the fact that and other related aspects. Moreover, we at present corpora annotated with RST relations are show the interface that we have developed available only for these languages (for English: to carry out searches over the corpus’ Carlson et al., 2002, Taboada and Renkema, 2008; annotated texts. for German: Stede, 2004; for Portuguese: Pardo et al., 2008) and there are automatic RST parsers for 1 Introduction two of them (for English: Marcu, 2000; for Portuguese: Pardo et al., 2008) or automatic RST The Rhetorical Structure Theory (RST) (Mann and segmenters (for English: Tofiloski et al., 2009). Thompson, 1988) is a language independent theory Scientific community working on RST applied to based on the idea that a text can be segmented into Spanish is very small. For example, Bouayad-Agha Elementary Discourse Units (EDUs) linked by et al. (2006) apply RST to text generation in means of nucleus-satellite or multinuclear several languages, Spanish among them. Da Cunha rhetorical relations. In the first case, the satellite et al. (2007) develop a summarization system for gives additional information about the other one, medical texts in Spanish based on RST. Da Cunha the nucleus, on which it depends (ex. Result, and Iruskieta (2010) perform a contrastive analysis Condition, Elaboration or Concession). In the of Spanish and Basque texts. Romera (2004) second case, several elements, all nuclei, are analyzes coherence relations by means of RST in connected at the same level, that is, there are no spoken Spanish. Taboada (2004) applies RST to elements dependent on others and they all have the analyze the resources used by speakers to elaborate same importance with regard to the intentions of conversations in English and Spanish. the author of the text (ex. Contrast, List, Joint or We consider that it is necessary to build a Sequence). The rhetorical analysis of a text by Spanish corpus annotated by means of RST. This means of RST includes 3 phases: segmentation, corpus should be useful for the development of a detection of relations and building of hierarchical rhetorical parser for this language and several other rhetorical trees. For more information about RST applications related to computational linguistics, we recommend the original article of Mann and like those developed for other languages http://www.sfu.ca/rst/index.html Proceedings of the Fifth Law Workshop (LAW V), pages 1–10, Portland, Oregon, 23-24 June 2011. c 2011 Association for Computational Linguistics (automatic translation, automatic summarization, specified and it does not include texts annotated by IE, etc.). And that is what we pretend to achieve several people. with our work. We present the development of the Another well-known corpus is the Potsdam RST Spanish Treebank, the first Spanish corpus Commentary Corpus, for German (Stede, 2004; annotated by means of RST. Reitter and Stede, 2003). This corpus includes 173 In Section 2, we present the state of the art texts on politics from the on-line newspaper about RST annotated corpora. In Section 3, we Märkische Allgemeine Zeitung. It contains 32,962 explain the characteristics of the RST Spanish words and 2,195 sentences. It is annotated with Treebank. In Section 4, we show the search several data: morphology, syntax, rhetorical interface we have developed. In Section 5, we structure, connectors, correference and informative establish some conclusions and future work. structure. Nevertheless, only a part of this corpus (10 texts), which the authors name "core corpus", 2 State of the Art is annotated with all this information. The texts were annotated with the RSTtool. This corpus has The most known RST corpus is the RST Discourse several advantages: it is annotated at different Treebank, for English (Carlson et al., 2002a, levels (the annotation of connectors is especially 2002b). It includes 385 texts of the journalistic interesting); all the texts were annotated by two domain, extracted from the Penn Treebank people (with a previous RST training phase); it is (Marcus et al., 1993), such as cultural reviews, free for research purposes, and there is a tool for editorials, economy articles, etc. 347 texts are used searching over the corpus (although it is not as a learning corpus and 38 texts are used as a test available on-line). The disadvantages are: the corpus. It contains 176,389 words and 21,789 genre and domain of all the texts are the same, the EDUs. 13.8% of the texts (that is, 53) were
