Fichier : Mikolov.pdf
Titre : Efficient Estimation of Word Representations in
Auteurs : Vector Space ; Tomas Mikolov Kai Chen ; Google Inc., Mountain View, CA Google Inc., Mountain View, CA ; Greg Corrado Jeffrey Dean ; Google Inc., Mountain View, CA Google Inc., Mountain View, CA
Emails : 
Resume : Abstract We propose two novel model architectures for computing continuous vector repre- sentations of words from very large data sets. The quality of these representations is measured in a word similarity task, and the results are compared to the previ- ously best performing techniques based on different types of neural networks. We observe large improvements in accuracy at much lower computational cost, i.e. it takes less than a day to learn high quality word vectors from a 1.6 billion words data set. Furthermore, we show that these vectors provide state-of-the-art perfor- mance on our test set for measuring syntactic and semantic word similarities. 1 Introduction Many current NLP systems and techniques treat words as atomic units - there is no notion of similar- ity between words, as these are represented as indices in a vocabulary. This choice has several good reasons - simplicity, robustness and the observation that simple models trained on huge amounts of data outperform complex systems trained on less data. An example is the popular N-gram model used for statistical language modeling - today, it is possible to train N-grams on virtually all available data (trillions of words [3]). However, the simple techniques are at their limits in many tasks. For example, the amount of relevant in-domain data for automatic speech recognition is limited - the performance is usually dominated by the size of high quality transcribed speech data (often just millions of words). In machine translation, the existing corpora for many languages contain only a few billions of words or less. Thus, there are situations where simple scaling up of the basic techniques will not result in any significant progress, and we have to focus on more advanced techniques. With progress of machine learning techniques in recent years, it has become possible to train more complex models on much larger data set, and they typically outperform the simple models. Probably the most successful concept is to use distributed representations of words [10]. For example, neural network based language models significantly outperform N-gram models [1, 27, 17]. 1.1 Goals of the Paper The main goal of this paper is to introduce techniques that can be used for learning high-quality word vectors from huge data sets with billions of words, and with millions of words in the vocabulary. As far as we know, none of the previously proposed architectures has been successfully trained on more than a few hundred of millions of words, with a modest dimensionality of the word vectors between 50 - 100. We use recently proposed techniques for measuring the quality of the resulting vector representa- tions, with the expectation that not only will similar words tend to be close to each other, but that words can have multiple degrees of similarity [20]. This has been observed earlier in the context of inflectional languages - for example, nouns can have multiple word endings, and if we search for similar words in a subspace of the original vector space, it is possible to find words that have similar endings [13, 14]. Somewhat surprisingly, it was found that similarity of word representations goes beyond simple syntactic regularities. Using a word offset technique where simple algebraic operations are per- formed on the word vectors, it was shown for example that vector(”King”) - vector(”Man”) + vec- tor(”Woman”) results in a vector that is closest to the vector representation of the word Queen [20]. In this paper, we try to maximize accuracy of these vector operations by developing new model architectures that preserve the linear regularities among words. We design a new comprehensive test set for measuring both syntactic and semantic regularities1 , and show that many such regularities can be learned with high accuracy. Moreover, we discuss how training time and accuracy depends on the dimensionality of the word vectors and on the amount of the training data. 1.2 Previous Work Representation of words as continuous vectors has a long history [10, 26, 8]. A very popular model architecture for estimating neural network language model (NNLM) was proposed in [1], where a feedforward neural network with a linear projection layer and a non-linear hidden layer was used to learn jointly the word vector representation and a statistical language model. This work has been followed by many others. Another interesting architecture of NNLM was presented in [13, 14], where the word vectors are first learned using neural network with a single hidden layer. The word vectors are then used to train the NNLM. Thus, the word vectors are learned even without constructing the full NNLM. In this work, we directly extend this architecture, and focus just on the first step where the word vectors are learned using a simple model. It was later shown that the word vectors can be used to significantly improve and simplify many NLP applications [4, 5, 29]. Estimation of the word vectors itself was performed using different model architectures and trained on various corpora [4, 29, 23, 19, 9], and some of the resulting word vectors were made available for future research and comparison2 . However, as far as we know, these architectures were significantly more computationally expensive for training than the one proposed in [13], with the exception of certain version of log-bilinear model where diagonal weight matrices are used [23]. 2 Model Architectures Many different types of models were proposed for estimating continuous representations of words, including the well-known Latent Semantic Analysis (LSA) and Latent Dirichlet Allocation (LDA). In this paper, we focus on distributed representations of words learned by neural networks, as it was previously shown that they perform significantly better than LSA for preserving linear regularities among words [20, 31]; LDA moreover becomes computationally very expensive on large data sets. Similar to [18], to compare different model architectures we define first the computational complex- ity of a model as the number of parameters that need to be accessed to fully train the model. Next, we will try to maximize the accuracy, while minimizing the computational complexity. The test set is available at www.fit.vutbr.cz/˜imikolov/rnnlm/word-test.v1.txt http://ronan.collobert.com/senna/ http://metaoptimize.com/projects/wordreprs/ http://www.fit.vutbr.cz/˜imikolov/rnnlm/ http://ai.stanford.edu/˜ehhuang/ For all the following models, the training complexity is proportional to O = E × T × Q, (1) where E is number of the training epochs, T is the number of the words in the training set and Q is defined further for each model architecture. Common choice is E = 3 − 50 and T up to one billion. All models are trained using stochastic gradient descent and backpropagation [26].
