Fichier : Nasr.pdf
Titre : An NLP Tool Suite for Processing Word Lattices Alexis Nasr Frédéric Béchet Jean-François Rey Benoı̂t Favre Joseph Le Roux∗
Auteurs : 
Emails : 
Resume : MACAON is a suite of tools developped to pro- cess ambiguous input and extend inference of in- MACAON is a tool suite for standard NLP tasks put modules within a global scope. It con- developed for French. MACAON has been de- sists in several modules that perform classical signed to process both human-produced text NLP tasks (tokenization, word recognition, part-of- and highly ambiguous word-lattices produced by NLP tools. MACAON is made of several na- speech tagging, lemmatization, morphological anal- tive modules for common tasks such as a tok- ysis, partial or full parsing) on either native text enization, a part-of-speech tagging or syntac- or word lattices. MACAON is distributed under tic parsing, all communicating with each other GNU public licence and can be downloaded from through XML files . In addition, exchange pro- http://www.macaon.lif.univ-mrs.fr/. tocols with external tools are easily definable. From a general point of view, a MACAON module MACAON is a fast, modular and open tool, dis- can be seen as an annotation device1 which adds a tributed under GNU Public License. new level of annotation to its input that generally de- pends on annotations from preceding modules. The 1 Introduction modules communicate through XML files that allow the representation different layers of annotation as The automatic processing of textual data generated well as ambiguities at each layer. Moreover, the ini- by NLP software, resulting from Machine Transla- tial XML structuring of the processed files (logical tion, Automatic Speech Recognition or Automatic structuring of a document, information from the Au- Text Summarization, raises new challenges for lan- tomatic Speech Recognition module . . . ) remains guage processing tools. Unlike native texts (texts untouched by the processing stages. produced by humans), this new kind of texts is the result of imperfect processors and they are made As already mentioned, one of the main charac- of several hypotheses, usually weighted with con- teristics of MACAON is the ability for each module fidence measures. Automatic text production sys- to accept ambiguous inputs and produce ambiguous tems can produce these weighted hypotheses as n- outputs, in such a way that ambiguities can be re- best lists, word lattices, or confusion networks. It is solved at a later stage of processing. The compact crucial for this space of ambiguous solutions to be representation of ambiguous structures is at the heart kept for later processing since the ambiguities of the of the MACAON exchange format, described in sec- lower levels can sometimes be resolved during high- tion 2. Furthermore every module can weight the level processing stages. It is therefore important to solutions it produces. such weights can be used to be able to represent this ambiguity. rank solutions or limit their number for later stages ∗ 1 This work has been funded by the French Agence Nationale Annotation must be taken here in a general sense which in- pour la Recherche, through the projects SEQUOIA (ANR-08- cludes tagging, segmentation or the construction of more com- EMER-013) and DECODA (2009-CORD-005-01) plex objets as syntagmatic or dependencies trees. Proceedings of the ACL-HLT 2011 System Demonstrations, pages 86–91, Portland, Oregon, USA, 21 June 2011. c 2011 Association for Computational Linguistics of processing. 2 The MACAON exchange format Several processing tools suites alread exist for The MACAON exchange format is based on four con- French among which SXPIPE (Sagot and Boullier, cepts: segment, attribute, annotation level and seg- 2008), OUTILEX (Blanc et al., 2006), NOOJ2 or UNI - mentation. TEX 3 . A general comparison of MACAON with these A segment refers to a segment of the text or tools is beyond the scope of this paper. Let us just speech signal that is to be processed, as a sentence, mention that MACAON shares with most of them the a clause, a syntactic constituent, a lexical unit, a use of finite state machines as core data represen- named entity . . . A segment can be equipped with at- tation. Some modules are implemented as standard tributes that describe some of its aspects. A syntac- operations on finite state machines. tic constituent, for example, will define the attribute MACAON can also be compared to the numerous type which specifies its syntactic type (Noun Phrase,
