Fichier : Torres.pdf
Titre : Summary Evaluation
Auteurs : 
Resume : We study a new content-based method for automatically generated summary (peer) has to be compared Summary Evaluation with and without References while other measures compare peers with all or some of the 3) Update-summarization task that consists of creating a input material: summary out of a cluster of documents and a topic. Two sub-tasks are considered here: A) an initial summary has MEASUREM (SUMi,k , Ii0 ) (4) to be produced based on an initial set of documents and where Ii0 is some subset of input Ii . The values produced topic; B) an update summary has to be produced from by the measures for each summary SUMi,k are averaged a different (but related) cluster assuming documents for each system k = 0, . . . , s − 1 and these averages are used in A) are known. The English TAC’08 Update used to produce a ranking. Rankings are then compared Summarization dataset is used, which consists of 48 using Spearman Rank correlation [17] which is used to topics with 20 documents each – 36,911 words. measure the degree of association between two variables 4) Opinion summarization where systems have to analyze whose values are used to rank objects. We have chosen a set of blog articles and summarize the opinions to use this correlation to compare directly results to those about a target in the articles. The TAC’08 Opinion presented in [12]. Computation of correlations is done using Summarization in English4 data set (taken from the the Statistics-RankCorrelation-0.12 package1 , which computes Blogs06 Text Collection) is used: 25 clusters and targets the rank correlation between two vectors. We also verified (i.e., target entity and questions) were used – 1,167,735 the good conformity of the results with the correlation test words. of Kendall τ calculated with the statistical software R. The 5) Generic single-document summarization in Spanish two nonparametric tests of Spearman and Kendall do not using the Medicina Clı́nica5 corpus, which is composed really stand out as the treatment of ex-æquo. The good of 50 medical articles in Spanish, each one with its correspondence between the two tests shows that they do not corresponding author abstract – 124,929 words. introduce bias in our analysis. Subsequently will mention only 6) Generic single document summarization in French using the ρ of Sperman more widely used in this field. the “Canadien French Sociological Articles” corpus from the journal Perspectives interdisciplinaires sur le travail et la santé (PISTES)6 . It contains 50 sociological A. Tools articles in French, each one with its corresponding We carry out experimentation using a new summarization author abstract – 381,039 words. evaluation framework: F RESA –FRamework for Evaluating 7) Generic multi-document-summarization in French using Summaries Automatically–, which includes document-based data from the RPM27 corpus [18], 20 different themes summary evaluation measures based on probabilities consisting of 10 articles and 4 abstracts by reference distribution2 . As in the ROUGE package, F RESA supports thematic – 185,223 words. different n-grams and skip n-grams probability distributions. For experimentation in the TAC and the DUC datasets we use The F RESA environment can be used in the evaluation of directly the peer summaries produced by systems participating summaries in English, French, Spanish and Catalan, and it in the evaluations. For experimentation in Spanish and French integrates filtering and lemmatization in the treatment of (single and multi-document summarization) we have created summaries and documents. It is developed in Perl and will summaries at a similar ratio to those of reference using the be made publicly available. We also use the ROUGE package following systems: [10] to compute various ROUGE statistics in new datasets. – ENERTEX [19], a summarizer based on a theory of textual energy; B. Summarization Tasks and Data Sets – CORTEX [20], a single-document sentence extraction We have conducted our experimentation with the following system for Spanish and French that combines various summarization tasks and data sets: statistical measures of relevance (angle between sentence 1) Generic multi-document-summarization in English and topic, various Hamming weights for sentences, etc.) (production of a short summary of a cluster of related and applies an optimal decision algorithm for sentence documents) using data from DUC’043 , task 2: 50 selection; clusters, 10 documents each – 294,636 words. – SUMMTERM [21], a terminology-based summarizer that 2) Focused-based summarization in English (production of is used for summarization of medical articles and a short focused multi-document summary focused on the uses specialized terminology for scoring and ranking question “who is X?”, where X is a person’s name) using sentences; data from the DUC’04 task 5: 50 clusters, 10 documents – REG [22], summarization system based on an greedy each plus a target person name – 284,440 words. algorithm; 1 http://search.cpan.org/∼gene/Statistics-RankCorrelation-0.12/ 4 http://www.nist.gov/tac/data/index.html 2 F RESA 5 http://www.elsevier.es/revistas/ctl servlet? f=7032&revistaid=2 is available at: http://lia.univavignon.fr/fileadmin/axes/TALNE/ Ressources.html 6 http://www.pistes.uqam.ca/ 3 http://www-nlpir.nist.gov/projects/duc/guidelines/2004.html 7 http://www-labs.sinequa.com/rpm2 15 Polibits (42) 2010 Juan-Manuel Torres-Moreno, Horacio Saggion, Iria da Cunha, Eric SanJuan, and Patricia Velázquez-Morales – J S summarizer, a summarization system that scores presented here we used uni-grams, 2-grams, and the skip and ranks sentences according to their Jensen-Shannon 2-grams with maximum skip distance of 4 (ROUGE-1, divergence to the source document; ROUGE-2 and ROUGE-SU4). ROUGE is used to compare – a lead-based summarization system that selects the lead a peer summary to a set of model summaries in our sentences of the document; framework (as indicated in equation 3). – a random-based summarization system that selects – Jensen-Shannon divergence formula given in Equation 2 sentences at random; is implemented in our F RESA package with the following – Open Text Summarizer [23], a multi-lingual summarizer specification (Equation 6) for the probability distribution based on the frequency and of words w. – commercial systems: Word, SSSummarizer8 , Pertinence9 CT and Copernic10 . Pw = w N ( S Cw NS if w ∈ S C. Evaluation Measures Qw = T Cw +δ (6) N +δ∗B otherwise The following measures derived from human assessment of the content of the summaries are used in our experiments: Where P is the probability distribution of words w in text T and Q is the probability distribution of words w – C OVERAGE is understood as the degree to which one in summary S; N is the number of words in text and peer summary conveys the same information as a model T summary N = NT +NS , B = 1.5|V |, Cw is the number summary [2]. C OVERAGE was used in DUC evaluations. S of words in the text and Cw is the number of words in This measure is used as indicated in equation 3 using the summary. For smoothing the summary’s probabilities human references or models. we have used δ = 0.005. We have also implemented – R ESPONSIVENESS ranks summaries in a 5-point scale other smoothing approaches (e.g. Good-Turing [24], that indicating how well the summary satisfied a given uses the CPAN Perl’s Statistics-Smoothing-SGT-2.1.2 information need [2]. It is used in focused-based package11 ) in F RESA, but we do not use them in summarization tasks. This measure is used as indicated the experiments reported here. Following the ROUGE in equation 4 since a human judges the summary approach, in addition to word uni-grams we use 2-grams with respect to a given input “user need” (e.g., a and skip n-grams computing divergences such as J S question). R ESPONSIVENESS was used in DUC and TAC (using uni-grams) J S 2 (using 2-grams), J S 4 (using the evaluations. skip n-grams of ROUGE-SU4), and J S M which is an – P YRAMIDS [11] is a content assessment measure which average of the J S i . J Ss measures are used to compare a compares content units in a peer summary to weighted peer summary to its source document(s) in our framework content units in a set of model summaries. This (as indicated in equation 4). In the case of summarization measure is used as indicated in equation 3 using human of multiple documents, these are concatenated (in the references or models. P YRAMIDS is the adopted metric given input order) to form a single input from which for content-based evaluation in the TAC evaluations. probabilities are computed. For DUC and TAC datasets the values of these measures are available and we used them directly. We used the following IV. E XPERIMENTS AND R ESULTS automatic evaluation measures in our experiments: We first replicated the experiments presented in [12] to – ROUGE [14], which is a recall metric that takes into verify that our implementation of J S produced correlation account n-grams as units of content for comparing peer results compatible with that work. We used the TAC’08 and model summaries. The ROUGE formula specified in Update Summarization data set and computed J S and [10] is as follows: ROUGE measures for each peer summary. We produced two system rankings (one for each measure), which were compared to rankings produced using the manual P YRAMIDS ROUGE-n(R, M ) = P P and R ESPONSIVENESS scores. Spearman correlations were m ∈ M n−gram∈P countmatch (n − gram) P P (5) computed among the different rankings. The results are m ∈M count(n-gram) presented in Table I. These results confirm a high correlation where R is the summary to be evaluated, M is the set of among P YRAMIDS, R ESPONSIVENESS and J S. We also model (human) summaries, countmatch is the number of verified high correlation between J S and ROUGE-2 (0.83 common n-grams in m and P , and count is the number Spearman correlation, not shown in the table) in this task and of n-grams in the model summaries. For the experiments dataset. Then, we experimented with data from DUC’04, TAC’08 8 http://www.kryltech.com/summarizer.htm Opinion Summarization pilot task as well as single and 9 http://www.pertinence.net 10 http://www.copernic.com/en/products/summarizer 11 http://search.cpan.org/∼bjoernw/Statistics-Smoothing-SGT-2.1.2/ Polibits (42) 2010 16 Summary Evaluation with and without References TABLE I S PEARMAN CORRELATION OF CONTENT- BASED MEASURES IN TAC’08 evaluation metrics that do not rely on human models but that U PDATE S UMMARIZATION TASK compare summary content to input content directly [12]. We have some positive and some negative results regarding the Mesure P YRAMIDS p-value R ESPONSIVENESS p-value direct use of the full document in content-based evaluation. ROUGE-2 0.96 p < 0.005 0.92 p < 0.005 We have verified that in both generic muti-document JS 0.85 p < 0.005 0.74 p < 0.005 summarization and in topic-based multi-document summarization in English correlation among measures that use human models (P YRAMIDS, R ESPONSIVENESS multi-document summarization in Spanish and French. In spite and ROUGE) and a measure that does not use models of the fact that the experiments for French and Spanish corpora (J S divergence) is strong. We have found that correlation use less data points (i.e., less summarizers per task) than among the same measures is weak for summarization of for English, results are still quite significant. For DUC’04, biographical information and summarization of opinions in we computed the J S measure for each peer summary in blogs. We believe that in these cases content-based measures tasks 2 and 5 and we used J S, ROUGE, C OVERAGE and should be considered, in addition to the input document, the R ESPONSIVENESS scores to produce systems’ rankings. The summarization task (i.e. text-based representation, description) various Spearman’s rank correlation values for DUC’04 are to better assess the content of the peers [25], the task being a presented in Tables II (for task 2) and III (for task 5). determinant factor in the selection of content for the summary. For task 2, we have verified a strong correlation between Our multi-lingual experiments in generic single-document J S and C OVERAGE. For task 5, the correlation between summarization confirm a strong correlation among the J S and C OVERAGE is weak, and that between J S and J S divergence and ROUGE measures. It is worth noting R ESPONSIVENESS is weak and negative. that ROUGE is in general the chosen framework for Although the Opinion Summarization (OS) task is a new presenting content-based evaluation results in non-English type of summarization task and its evaluation is a complicated summarization. issue, we have decided to compare J S rankings with those For the experiments in Spanish, we are conscious that we obtained using P YRAMIDS and R ESPONSIVENESS in TAC’08. only have one model summary to compare with the peers. Spearman’s correlation values are listed in Table IV. As it can Nevertheless, these models are the corresponding abstracts be seen, there is weak and negative correlation of J S with written by the authors. As the experiments in [26] show, the both P YRAMIDS and R ESPONSIVENESS. Correlation between professionals of a specialized domain (as, for example, the P YRAMIDS and R ESPONSIVENESS rankings is high for this medical domain) adopt similar strategies to summarize their task (0.71 Spearman’s correlation value). texts and they tend to choose roughly the same content chunks For experimentation in mono-document summarization for their summaries. Previous studies have shown that author in Spanish and French, we have run 11 multi-lingual abstracts are able to reformulate content with fidelity [27] and summarization systems; for experimentation in French, we these abstracts are ideal candidates for comparison purposes. have run 12 systems. In both cases, we have produced Because of this, the summary of the author of a medical article summaries at a compression rate close to the compression rate can be taken as reference for summaries evaluation. It is worth of the authors’ provided abstracts. We have then computed J S noting that there is still debate on the number of models to be and ROUGE measures for each summary and we have averaged used in summarization evaluation [28]. In the French corpus the measure’s values for each system. These averages were PISTES, we suspect the situation is similar to the Spanish used to produce rankings per each measure. We computed case. Spearman’s correlations for all pairs of rankings. Results are presented in Tables V, VI and VII. All results VI. C ONCLUSIONS AND F UTURE W ORK show medium to strong correlation between the J S measures This paper has presented a series of experiments in and ROUGE measures. However the J S measure based on Summary Evaluation with and without References TABLE VI S PEARMAN ρ OF CONTENT- BASED MEASURES WITH ROUGE IN THE PISTES C ORPUS (F RENCH ) Mesure ROUGE -1 p-value ROUGE -2 p-value ROUGE -SU4 p-value JS 0.70 p < 0.050 0.73 p < 0.05 0.73 p < 0.500 J S2 0.93 p < 0.002 0.86 p < 0.01 0.86 p < 0.005 J S4 0.83 p < 0.020 0.76 p < 0.05 0.76 p < 0.050 J SM 0.88 p < 0.010 0.83 p < 0.02 0.83 p < 0.010 TABLE VII S PEARMAN ρ OF CONTENT- BASED MEASURES WITH ROUGE IN THE RPM2 C ORPUS (F RENCH ) Measure ROUGE -1 p-value ROUGE -2 p-value ROUGE -SU4 p-value JS 0.830 p < 0.002 0.660 p < 0.05 0.741 p < 0.01 J S2 0.800 p < 0.005 0.590 p < 0.05 0.680 p < 0.02 J S4 0.750 p < 0.010 0.520 p < 0.10 0.620 p < 0.05 J SM 0.850 p < 0.002 0.640 p < 0.05 0.740 p < 0.01
